docs: observability for lbws/worker service/backend service (#3492)
aws/copilot-cli: site/content/docs/developing/observability.en.md

# Observability

## Getting Started
Copilot can configure trace collection for services by setting the following in a manifest:
```yaml
observability:
  tracing: awsxray
```

> For [Request-Driven Web Services](../concepts/services.en.md#request-driven-web-service), Copilot will enable Observability in App Runner.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
For [Request-Driven Web Services](../concepts/services.en.md#request-driven-web-service), Copilot will enable App Runner's baked-in [tracing configuration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apprunner/latest/dg/monitor-xray.html).
```

# Observability

## Getting Started

> Copilot can deploy the AWS OpenTelemetry Collector as a [sidecar](./sidecars.en.md) by setting the following in your manifest:

Reviewer: This section seems to apply only to backend/LBWS/WS - should we call it out that this isn't what Copilot does for RDWS's tracing? Like RDWS's interface for Copilot is just flipping a switch, and people won't see a sidecar in this case.

Author: Great point. I'll find a different way to describe the implementation details.😊

```yaml
observability:
  tracing: awsxray
```

Copilot will then deploy the AWS OpenTelemetry Collector using the [ECS X-Ray configuration](https://github.com/aws-observability/aws-otel-collector/blob/main/config/ecs/ecs-xray.yaml), which does the following:

- Receives [OpenTelemetry Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/otlp.md) telemetry data on default ports `:4317` (GRPC) and `:4318` (HTTP)
- Adds [ECS](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/resourcedetectionprocessor#amazon-ecs) and [EC2](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/resourcedetectionprocessor#aws-ec2) resource information to traces generated by your service
- [Batches](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor/batchprocessor) traces before export
- [Exports](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/awsxrayexporter) traces to AWS X-Ray

## Instrumenting Your Service

> Instrumenting your service to send telemetry data is done through [language specific SDKs](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/). 

Reviewer 2: What do you think of including a JS snippet here from the website or your own code? just so people get a sense of what to look for in the docs

Author: yeah i've been going back and forth on that - i'll condense it as much as possible and include a snippet :)

### Including Trace Logs
!!!attention
	This section is not applicable to Request-Driven Web Services 

Because Copilot configures the ECS resource detector on the collector, traces generated by your service will include the log group your service is logging to.
Then, if you include the trace ID in your logs, logs associated with a trace will show up along with the trace in CloudWatch.
This can be helpful for understanding and debugging a trace.

X-Ray [formats their trace IDs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-api-sendingdata.html#xray-api-traceids) a little [differently than OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/api/#spancontext), so you'll need a function like this to take an OpenTelemetry trace ID and format it correctly for X-Ray:
```js
function getXRayTraceId(span) {
	const id = span.spanContext().traceId;
	if (id.length < 9) {
		return id;
	}

	return "1-" + id.substring(0, 8) + "-" + id.substring(8);
}
```

Then, you can include the X-Ray trace ID in your logs like so:
```js
console.log("[%s] A useful log message", getXRayTraceId(span));
```

> ## Viewing Traces in AWS X-Ray Console

Reviewer: You can also view traces through CloudWatch's console!

Author: that's what i meant to put 🙃
